docs/workflows/sync.rst, before:

Synchronize a Repository
================================================================================

.. include:: ../external_references.rst

Users can populate their repositories with content from an external source by syncing their repository.

.. image:: sync.svg
   :alt: Sync repository with remote

This example syncs the nginx repository from `nginx.org`_ for Debian Buster.


.. _create_a_repository:

Create a Repository
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Start by creating a new repository named ``nginx``:

.. code-block:: bash

   http post $BASE_ADDR/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/ name="nginx"

This will return a ``201 Created`` response:

.. code-block:: json

   {
       "description": null,
       "latest_version_href": "/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/1c8734dd-d4cb-4c2f-811a-87235f786444/versions/0/",
       "name": "nginx",
       "pulp_created": "2020-06-29T07:17:34.789398Z",
       "pulp_href": "/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/1c8734dd-d4cb-4c2f-811a-87235f786444/",
       "versions_href": "/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/1c8734dd-d4cb-4c2f-811a-87235f786444/versions/"
   }


Create a Remote
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Creating a remote object informs Pulp about an external content source:

.. code-block:: bash

   http post $BASE_ADDR/pulp/api/v3/remotes/deb/apt/ name="nginx.org" url="http://nginx.org/packages/debian" distributions="buster"

This will return a ``201 Created`` response:

.. code-block:: json

   {
       "architectures": null,
       "ca_cert": null,
       "client_cert": null,
       "client_key": null,
       "components": null,
       "distributions": "buster",
       "download_concurrency": 20,
       "gpgkey": null,
       "name": "nginx.org",
       "password": null,
       "policy": "immediate",
       "proxy_url": null,
       "pulp_created": "2020-06-29T07:18:44.906572Z",
       "pulp_href": "/pulp/api/v3/remotes/deb/apt/efd3848c-6d7b-4f25-baaf-ad05b52a5220/",
       "pulp_last_updated": "2020-06-29T07:18:44.906584Z",
       "sync_installer": false,
       "sync_sources": false,
       "sync_udebs": false,
       "tls_validation": true,
       "url": "http://nginx.org/packages/debian",
       "username": null
   }

.. important::
   When trying to synchronize a remote repository using `flat repository format`_, any distributions provided must end with ``/``.
   Conversely, a distribution string provided for a repository not using flat repository format must not end with ``/``!
   It is not recommended to provide more than one distribution when synchronizing a flat repository.


Sync Repository with Remote
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Use a repository with a specified remote object to start the synchronization process.
This is telling Pulp to fetch content from the remote and add it to the repository.
The remote is the parameter to the sync endpoint on the repository.

.. code-block:: bash

   http post $BASE_ADDR/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/<uuid_repository>/sync/ remote=$BASE_ADDR/pulp/api/v3/remotes/deb/apt/<uuid_remote>/

Replace the ``uuid`` of the repository as returned by step one and replace the ``uuid`` of the remote as returned by step two.

This will return a ``202 Accepted`` response:

.. code-block:: json

   {
       "task": "/pulp/api/v3/tasks/c3a75b6c-97c9-410b-b079-a7a70ebae0cb/"
   }

Depending on the size of the repository, this might take a while.

You can follow the progress of the task with a ``GET`` request to the task:

.. code-block:: bash

   http get $BASE_ADDR/pulp/api/v3/tasks/c3a75b6c-97c9-410b-b079-a7a70ebae0cb/

This will return a ``200 OK`` response:

.. code-block:: json

   {
         "child_tasks": [],
         "created_resources": [
             "/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/1381e6e4-135f-49dd-8e1d-5336c475fe92/versions/1/"
         ],
         "error": null,
         "finished_at": "2020-06-26T06:58:54.913964Z",
         "name": "pulp_deb.app.tasks.synchronizing.synchronize",
         "parent_task": null,
         "progress_reports": [
             {
                 "code": "downloading.artifacts",
                 "done": 125,
                 "message": "Downloading Artifacts",
                 "state": "completed",
                 "suffix": null,
                 "total": null
             },
             {
                 "code": "update.release_file",
                 "done": 1,
                 "message": "Update ReleaseFile units",
                 "state": "completed",
                 "suffix": null,
                 "total": null
             },
             {
                 "code": "update.packageindex",
                 "done": 2,
                 "message": "Update PackageIndex units",
                 "state": "completed",
                 "suffix": null,
                 "total": null
             },
             {
                 "code": "associating.content",
                 "done": 229,
                 "message": "Associating Content",
                 "state": "completed",
                 "suffix": null,
                 "total": null
             }
         ],
         "pulp_created": "2020-06-26T06:58:35.505839Z",
         "pulp_href": "/pulp/api/v3/tasks/b280c885-d9f9-4155-b7e1-e7fe87649f10/",
         "reserved_resources_record": [
             "/pulp/api/v3/remotes/deb/apt/73492e70-c9a7-4a34-92ae-ce16bb69e060/",
             "/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/1381e6e4-135f-49dd-8e1d-5336c475fe92/"
         ],
         "started_at": "2020-06-26T06:58:35.665451Z",
         "state": "completed",
         "task_group": null,
         "worker": "/pulp/api/v3/workers/e64b7bf5-90a0-439a-a4f2-bc1a5c0f6942/"
   }

Notice that when the synchronize task completes, it creates a new version, which is specified in ``created_resources``.

.. note::

    To set up a regular sync task, use one of the external tools that deal with periodic background jobs.
    Learn more about scheduling tasks `here <https://docs.pulpproject.org/pulpcore/workflows/scheduling-tasks.html>`_.

Continue with :doc:`publish` to make your synced repository consumable.

Commit message:

Add FORCE_IGNORE_MISSING_PACKAGE_INDICES setting
closes #9555
https://pulp.plan.io/issues/9555

docs/workflows/sync.rst, after:

Synchronize a Repository
================================================================================

.. include:: ../external_references.rst

Users can populate their repositories with content from an external source by syncing their repository.

.. image:: sync.svg
   :alt: Sync repository with remote

This example syncs the nginx repository from `nginx.org`_ for Debian Buster.


.. _create_a_repository:

Create a Repository
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Start by creating a new repository named ``nginx``:

.. code-block:: bash

   http post $BASE_ADDR/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/ name="nginx"

This will return a ``201 Created`` response:

.. code-block:: json

   {
       "description": null,
       "latest_version_href": "/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/1c8734dd-d4cb-4c2f-811a-87235f786444/versions/0/",
       "name": "nginx",
       "pulp_created": "2020-06-29T07:17:34.789398Z",
       "pulp_href": "/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/1c8734dd-d4cb-4c2f-811a-87235f786444/",
       "versions_href": "/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/1c8734dd-d4cb-4c2f-811a-87235f786444/versions/"
   }


Create a Remote
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Creating a remote object informs Pulp about an external content source:

.. code-block:: bash

   http post $BASE_ADDR/pulp/api/v3/remotes/deb/apt/ name="nginx.org" url="http://nginx.org/packages/debian" distributions="buster"

This will return a ``201 Created`` response:

.. code-block:: json

   {
       "architectures": null,
       "ca_cert": null,
       "client_cert": null,
       "client_key": null,
       "components": null,
       "distributions": "buster",
       "download_concurrency": 20,
       "gpgkey": null,
       "name": "nginx.org",
       "password": null,
       "policy": "immediate",
       "proxy_url": null,
       "pulp_created": "2020-06-29T07:18:44.906572Z",
       "pulp_href": "/pulp/api/v3/remotes/deb/apt/efd3848c-6d7b-4f25-baaf-ad05b52a5220/",
       "pulp_last_updated": "2020-06-29T07:18:44.906584Z",
       "sync_installer": false,
       "sync_sources": false,
       "sync_udebs": false,
       "tls_validation": true,
       "url": "http://nginx.org/packages/debian",
       "username": null
   }

.. important::
   When trying to synchronize a remote repository using `flat repository format`_, any distributions provided must end with ``/``.
   Conversely, a distribution string provided for a repository not using flat repository format must not end with ``/``!
   It is not recommended to provide more than one distribution when synchronizing a flat repository.

.. note::
   By default, syncs will fail if the upstream repo is missing package indices that are present in the Release file.
   This breaks synchronization from partial mirrors, and can be overriden by setting `ignore_missing_package_indices=True` on the remote.
   Alternatively, use FORCE_IGNORE_MISSING_PACKAGE_INDICES=True in your Pulp configuration file, to force this behaviour for all remotes.


Sync Repository with Remote
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Use a repository with a specified remote object to start the synchronization process.
This is telling Pulp to fetch content from the remote and add it to the repository.
The remote is the parameter to the sync endpoint on the repository.

.. code-block:: bash

   http post $BASE_ADDR/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/<uuid_repository>/sync/ remote=$BASE_ADDR/pulp/api/v3/remotes/deb/apt/<uuid_remote>/

Replace the ``uuid`` of the repository as returned by step one and replace the ``uuid`` of the remote as returned by step two.

This will return a ``202 Accepted`` response:

.. code-block:: json

   {
       "task": "/pulp/api/v3/tasks/c3a75b6c-97c9-410b-b079-a7a70ebae0cb/"
   }

Depending on the size of the repository, this might take a while.

You can follow the progress of the task with a ``GET`` request to the task:

.. code-block:: bash

   http get $BASE_ADDR/pulp/api/v3/tasks/c3a75b6c-97c9-410b-b079-a7a70ebae0cb/

This will return a ``200 OK`` response:

.. code-block:: json

   {
         "child_tasks": [],
         "created_resources": [
             "/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/1381e6e4-135f-49dd-8e1d-5336c475fe92/versions/1/"
         ],
         "error": null,
         "finished_at": "2020-06-26T06:58:54.913964Z",
         "name": "pulp_deb.app.tasks.synchronizing.synchronize",
         "parent_task": null,
         "progress_reports": [
             {
                 "code": "downloading.artifacts",
                 "done": 125,
                 "message": "Downloading Artifacts",
                 "state": "completed",
                 "suffix": null,
                 "total": null
             },
             {
                 "code": "update.release_file",
                 "done": 1,
                 "message": "Update ReleaseFile units",
                 "state": "completed",
                 "suffix": null,
                 "total": null
             },
             {
                 "code": "update.packageindex",
                 "done": 2,
                 "message": "Update PackageIndex units",
                 "state": "completed",
                 "suffix": null,
                 "total": null
             },
             {
                 "code": "associating.content",
                 "done": 229,
                 "message": "Associating Content",
                 "state": "completed",
                 "suffix": null,
                 "total": null
             }
         ],
         "pulp_created": "2020-06-26T06:58:35.505839Z",
         "pulp_href": "/pulp/api/v3/tasks/b280c885-d9f9-4155-b7e1-e7fe87649f10/",
         "reserved_resources_record": [
             "/pulp/api/v3/remotes/deb/apt/73492e70-c9a7-4a34-92ae-ce16bb69e060/",
             "/pulp/api/v3/repositories/deb/apt/1381e6e4-135f-49dd-8e1d-5336c475fe92/"
         ],
         "started_at": "2020-06-26T06:58:35.665451Z",
         "state": "completed",
         "task_group": null,
         "worker": "/pulp/api/v3/workers/e64b7bf5-90a0-439a-a4f2-bc1a5c0f6942/"
   }

Notice that when the synchronize task completes, it creates a new version, which is specified in ``created_resources``.

.. note::

    To set up a regular sync task, use one of the external tools that deal with periodic background jobs.
    Learn more about scheduling tasks `here <https://docs.pulpproject.org/pulpcore/workflows/scheduling-tasks.html>`_.

Continue with :doc:`publish` to make your synced repository consumable.
