docs/installation.rst, before:

User Setup
==========

All REST API examples below use `httpie <https://httpie.org/doc>`__ to
perform the requests.

.. code-block:: bash

    machine localhost
    login admin
    password admin

If you configured the ``admin`` user with a different password, adjust the configuration
accordingly. If you prefer to specify the username and password with each request, please see
``httpie`` documentation on how to do that.


Install ``pulpcore``
--------------------

Follow the `installation
instructions <docs.pulpproject.org/en/3.0/nightly/installation/instructions.html>`__
provided with pulpcore.

Install plugin
--------------

This document assumes that you have
`installed pulpcore <https://docs.pulpproject.org/en/3.0/nightly/installation/instructions.html>`_
into a the virtual environment ``pulpvenv``.

Users should install from **either** PyPI or source.

From Source
***********

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo -u pulp -i
   source ~/pulpvenv/bin/activate
   cd pulp_deb
   pip install -e .
   django-admin runserver 24817

Make and Run Migrations
-----------------------

.. code-block:: bash

   pulp-manager makemigrations pulp_deb
   pulp-manager migrate pulp_deb


Run Services
------------

.. code-block:: bash

   pulp-manager runserver
   gunicorn pulpcore.content:server --bind 'localhost:24816' --worker-class 'aiohttp.GunicornWebWorker' -w 2
   sudo systemctl restart pulpcore-resource-manager
   sudo systemctl restart pulpcore-worker@1
   sudo systemctl restart pulpcore-worker@2

Commit message:

Refactor the entire documentation
fixes #7211
https://pulp.plan.io/issues/7211

* Make all titles use title case (visible change).
* Make all title underlines 80 characters long.
* Make source files use one sentence per line.
* Rechecked all URLs for broken links.
* Use references for URLs embedded in text.
* Use include statements to avoid duplicate source code.
* Ensure consistent (3 space) ReStructuredText style indentation.

docs/installation.rst, after:

Installation
================================================================================

.. _pulpcore installation: https://docs.pulpproject.org/installation/index.html

.. include:: httpie_usage.rst


Install ``pulpcore``
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Please see the `pulpcore installation`_ instructions.


Install ``pulp_deb`` Plugin
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This document assumes that you have used the `pulpcore installation`_ to install pulpcore into a the virtual environment ``pulpvenv``.

Users should install from **either** PyPI or source.


From Source
********************************************************************************

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo -u pulp -i
   source ~/pulpvenv/bin/activate
   cd pulp_deb
   pip install -e .
   django-admin runserver 24817


Make and Run Migrations
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

   pulp-manager makemigrations pulp_deb
   pulp-manager migrate pulp_deb


Run Services
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

   pulp-manager runserver
   gunicorn pulpcore.content:server --bind 'localhost:24816' --worker-class 'aiohttp.GunicornWebWorker' -w 2
   sudo systemctl restart pulpcore-resource-manager
   sudo systemctl restart pulpcore-worker@1
   sudo systemctl restart pulpcore-worker@2
